Carrión makes some neat points about about mail art, what it is, what it isn\'t, what it\'s composed of, etc. To me, the most interesting point which Carrión raises is the juxtaposition of a medium over which the artist has absolute control and another medium where the artist has no control at all. I think this translates very easily to art on the Internet: Mail becomes code and the postal service becomes the Internet. I agree with Carrión\'s sentiment about making more Mail Art (or in this case, Internet Art(?)) because I also have a sense that some sort of Big Monster permeates across the web. I can\'t really put into words what that monster is -- maybe an amalgamation of relentless surveillance, advertisements, capitalist hellscapes -- but I think \"Internet Art\" serves a similar purpose to Mail Art in \"knocking on the monster\'s door.\" EDIT: I totally forgot my discussion questions. Here they are: 1. At what point do you think an artist loses control over a medium? Is it a spectrum? One could probably make the argument that while an artist has control over their own code, when it comes to, say, web-development, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript are kind of the norms. 2. In my opinion, one of the most interesting aspects of the reading is the existence of a big monster, which even Carrión is unsure of exactly what it is. Carrión states the point of mail art is to somehow fight back against the monster. Do you think this big monster is something which exists for all forms of art? Perhaps different art forms present different monsters? In this week\'s reading, Laurel Schwulst and Édouard U give interesting perspectives into their vision of what the Internet should be. Schwulst goes into detail of what a website really is and can be, listing out a variety of metaphors which can possibly be translated into the form of a website. Schwulst emphasizes the importance of individuality on the web. Édouard focuses less on websites themselves, but more on a particular mindset. One that is both capable of being creative and thinking on its own, but also analytic. Édouard also says that we should surf the Internet, as opposed to simply searching/using it. Schwulst and Édouard both share the sentiment that over time, the Internet has become much less of a tool and much more of an actual place. They seem to argue that it is up to artists and regular people to create a space worth our time, rather than a pool of corporate mumbo-jumbo. Discussion Questions: 1. As social media are likely the most prevalent spaces on the Internet, do you think they are capable of capturing what Schwulst and Édouard envision for the web? That is, can they capture someone\'s art/artistic individuality? 2. Everyone uses the Internet differently and for different reasons; how would these reasons change the way people express themselves creatively online? Should anyone who is an Internet user know how to make a website or code? In this week\'s reading, Olia Lialina discusses the history, significance, and archival \"ruins\" of Geocities. She discusses the variety of ways that people creatively expressed themselves through a personal webpage, as well as how these users formed different communities and interacted with each other. Lialina goes into detail in the analysis of archived pages and what these pages look like today. Many of them are dead. Many of them still possess the stylistic idiosyncrasies of their time. Others are messages telling the reader that the webpage has moved since Geocities would soon be shut down. Some are nothing at all. All in all, the reading was super interesting, especially since I love that vintage, early-Internet aesthetic. Discussion questions: 1. I think a lot of the characterizing aspects of Geocities still persist on the Internet today -- namely, neighborhoods of different communities -- but it is clear that the expectation of any sort of \"creative expression\" / html-ing is gone. Do you think it was sort of inevitable that the Internet would develop this way? 2. Are there any other media that are prone to changing over time outside of its own influence, similar to webpages? Like, the way deleted images appear on some Geocity pages? I guess some art can just deteriorate over time from the elements, but it doesn\'t really feel the same, ya know? Or maybe it is. In this reading, Coklyat and Finnegan discuss alt-text as not only a means of creating accessibility on your website, but also how it is a sort of art itself... Or at least related to an existing art form such as poetry. They frame alt-text as both a form of a poetry, as well as a means of translating something. \"Good\" alt-text should take in consideration both of these aspects. I think it is very interesting how they advocate for a sense of subjectivity and personal interpretation when writing alt-text rather than aiming for a purely objective way of describing an image. Some discussion questions: 1. I personally have never interacted with alt-text before, and I definitely didn\'t know it existed until I took this class. I am curious how my classmates have seen/used/interacted with alt-text in the past, if at all? 2. Even if it is a more hidden aspect of the webpage, do you think that alt-text could be used to convey/bolster the existing artistic ideas on the page? This week\'s reading of Ben Duvall\'s New Modernism(s) was interesting, although a little bit difficult for me. Hypermodernism refers to a graphics design style in which efficiency seems to be key, as most designs can simply be quickly scrolled away from. In particular, Duvall lists \"increased speed and frequency of sign systems\" as characteristics of hypermodernism. Duvall also analyzes how signifiers themselves become like the signified; for example, the glove of Mickey Mouse or the shape of Mickey\'s head are instantly recognizable as elements of both American culture and perhaps capitalism. Discussion questions: 1. Do the ideas of hypermodernism appear in other media? e.g., literature, music etc. 2. Does the changing recognizability of certain signifiers over time also change the interpretation of works over time? For example, a piece containing Mickey Mouse\'s glove may be perceived differently between the 20th and 21st centuries.
In this week\'s reading, Dot Tuer discusses a few of the works of Vera Frenkel, focusing primarily on String Games. String Games is an experimental work in which various participants would play a game of cat\'s cradle while the act is broadcasted live via real-time video transmission (at the time, a new technology). The art is significant in a few ways. First, the broadcasted nature of the work on a screen showcases the fleeting nature of such art, especially art that emerges on the web. Moreover, the game of cat\'s cradle is improvised: each participant is at the same time interpreting and responding to one another without the intervention of a script or spoken word. To me, this is also indicative of the nature of the web, on which things are very rarely scripted or planned, but rather, people are simply responding to one another, resulting in a feedback loop of sorts. Tuer also discusses the significance of the work\'s absence in the canon of new media history. Discussion questions: 1. Are there works that you have encountered in the past similar in nature to String Games, whether conceptually or historically? 2. Does the absence/exclusion of a work of art in general say something more about the piece itself? As in, can it contribute/detract to one\'s interpretation of the work and the artist? I suppose it would probably depend on the context. This was an interesting reading, although I\'m not too sure what to write here. I am aware that the history of computation is riddled with discrimination, but I did not know that black communities were so explicitly targeted by it. The Way is also an interesting character, and to me, it represents the absolute worst part about computers and the Internet today. So much of it is intended to create \"data doubles\" of people that are almost certainly not representative of them, with the end purpose being to advertise and sell products. It is not difficult to think of this data being used in even more malicious ways (e.g., the reading\'s note on gentrification). I think it is also sort of interesting that The Way attempts to \"handhold\" throughout its installation process, leading Gem blindingly on without any awareness of what is ahead. In any case, throughout how ubiquitous the computation has become, it becomes easy to feel disconnected with the real world, which I think is the purpose of The Beyond. It serves as a reminder that machines, while reflective of a discriminatory history, are still just that, and we can leverage our communities to use them for better things. Discussion questions: 1. In what different ways does The Way manifest itself on the Internet and various software? Is there software that are more reflective of The Beyond? 2. The reading tells us to connect with the communities which mean something to us as a means of contending with the history of computation and how modern software companies manipulate their users. In what other ways could we utilize the Beyond? That is, how else could we contend with this history and manipulative software? This reading was pretty challenging. I can sort of understand where Groys comes from when he says that art is defictionalized on the Internet, and honestly, before this reading, I never thought about the entire of notion of experiencing art on the Internet and how bizarre that is. It rarely is ever the case that I explicitly look up a piece of Internet art to observe; rather, it typically ends up being a seamless integration in my never-ending, mindless consumption of everything I see online. Moreover, because there is so much for one person to see online, as well as its proximity to huge corporations (and honestly probably being hosted by one of their platforms), art ends up being sort of lost to the void or indistinguishable from others things online. On another note, archiving is pretty interesting and it is something that I partake in decently frequently, although mostly for my own personal use. I never saw an archive as a means of posthumously distributing one\'s art or one\'s self, but more of the act of preserving media that we fear might be lost over time. Maybe these are exactly the same thing. Discussion Questions: 1. Groys touches on how artists present themselves and their work online. If the end goal is ultimately to promote your work, do you think these are the best ways to go about putting your work on the Internet? 2. Has the Internet changed the way we experience the physical spaces which host art? (e.g., museums, exhibits, etc.)